Title: Amazon EBS Snapshot Management Guide

Introduction:
This guide provides instructions on how to use a Bash script to automate the process of creating snapshots of Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) volumes using the AWS CLI. The script also manages the retention of snapshots, keeping a specified number of recent snapshots and deleting older ones to conserve storage space.

Prerequisites:
1. AWS CLI installed and configured with appropriate IAM permissions to create and manage snapshots of EBS volumes.
2. Access to an AWS account with Amazon EC2 instances and EBS volumes to create and manage snapshots.

Script Usage:
1. Download the provided Bash script (manage_ebs_snapshots.sh) to your local machine or EC2 instance.

2. Open the script in a text editor and set the following variables:
   - AWS_REGION: Your AWS region code (e.g., us-west-2).
   - VOLUME_ID: The ID of the EBS volume for which you want to create and manage snapshots.
   - SNAPSHOTS_TO_KEEP: The number of snapshots to keep. Older snapshots beyond this number will be deleted.

3. Save the changes to the script.

4. Make the script executable by running the following command in the terminal:

chmod +x manage_ebs_snapshots.sh

5. Test the script manually by running it in the terminal:

./manage_ebs_snapshots.sh

This command will create a snapshot of the specified EBS volume and manage the retention of snapshots according to the configured parameters.

Automating with Cron:
1. Open the cron jobs configuration file for editing using the following command:

crontab -e

2. Add a new cron job entry to schedule the snapshot management script to run every Friday night:

0 0 * * 5 /path/to/manage_ebs_snapshots.sh

This cron job entry runs the manage_ebs_snapshots.sh script at midnight (0:00) every Friday (day of the week: 5).

3. Save the changes and exit the editor.

4. Verify that the cron job has been added successfully by listing the current cron jobs using the following command:

crontab -l

You should see the newly added cron job entry for the snapshot management script.

5. Sit back and relax! The script automates the process of creating snapshots of Amazon EBS volumes and managing snapshot retention, ensuring data backup and storage efficiency in your AWS environment.

Note:
- Ensure that the AWS CLI is installed and configured correctly with the necessary permissions to create and manage snapshots of EBS volumes.
- Exercise caution when running the script, as it will create snapshots of the specified EBS volume(s) and delete older snapshots immediately upon execution.
- Adjust the script parameters according to your specific requirements and environment, such as the AWS region, EBS volume ID, and the number of snapshots to keep.
